When you sit down with a blank greeting card in front of you dont be surprised if you cant seem to put pen to paper. Many of us get a case of writers block when we sit down to write a birthday card greeting especially to the people we love the most. Sure the birthday honoree knows just how much you love and appreciate him or her but it doesnt hurt to remind them on their day. Accompany your birthday wishes in a beautiful personalized birthday card or perhaps a birthday care package. You can even bundle all your favorite pictures of the birthday girl or boy together into a festive birthday calendar for a reminder of your love all year long.

The following birthday quotes will make for the nicest addition to your birthday cards for family and friends. Jump to any relevant section below

Inspirational Birthday Wishes  Funny Birthday Quotes For Best Friend  Cute Happy Birthday Quotes For Her  Happy Birthday Wishes For Him
Inspirational Birthday Wishes
Another year older and another reason to celebrate Give your birthday card message a forwardlooking touch with one of these inspirational birthday wishes. Then add your wishes to a matte photo card for a modern and personalized touch or add them to a birthday theme card you can customize.

Count your life by smiles not tears. Count your age by friends not years. Happy birthday
Happy birthday I hope all your birthday wishes and dreams come true.
A wish for you on your birthday whatever you ask may you receive whatever you seek may you find whatever you wish may it be fulfilled on your birthday and always. Happy birthday
 Another adventure filled year awaits you. Welcome it by celebrating your birthday with pomp and splendor. Wishing you a very happy and funfilled birthday
May the joy that you have spread in the past come back to you on this day. Wishing you a very happy birthday
Happy birthday Your life is just about to pick up speed and blast off into the stratosphere. Wear a seat belt and be sure to enjoy the journey. Happy birthday
This birthday I wish you abundant happiness and love. May all your dreams turn into reality and may lady luck visit your home today. Happy birthday to one of the sweetest people Ive ever known.
May you be gifted with lifes biggest joys and neverending bliss. After all you yourself are a gift to earth so you deserve the best. Happy birthday.
Count not the candlessee the lights they give. Count not the years but the life you live. Wishing you a wonderful time ahead. Happy birthday.
Forget the past look forward to the future for the best things are yet to come.
Birthdays are a new start a fresh beginning and a time to pursue new endeavors with new goals. Move forward with confidence and courage. You are a very special person. May today and all of your days be amazing
Your birthday is the first day of another 365day journey. Be the shining thread in the beautiful tapestry of the world to make this year the best ever. Enjoy the ride.
Be happy Today is the day you were brought into this world to be a blessing and inspiration to the people around you You are a wonderful person May you be given more birthdays to fulfill all of your dreams
Once youve found the perfect birthday message get inspired by these great birthday cards personalized gifts and ideas for making your loved ones day extra special at every age

Quinceaera Jewelry  Matte Photo Cards  Family Birthday Calendars  Gifts  Gifts For Kids  Creative Birthday Cards  Birthday Card Ideas  Birthday Photo Booth Props  Best Personalized Gifts  Birthday Care Packages

Funny Happy Birthday Quotes For Best Friend
Birthdays are meant to be full of laughter and cheer. When your best opens his or her birthday card from you youll know why they cant stop smiling. Pick out one of these funny happy birthday quotes or mix and match them with your own words to craft the perfect cheers to another year older. For more birthday fun set up a birthday photo booth for pictures that will have all the birthday guests laughing.

happy birthday quotes for son

Happy birthday May your Facebook wall be filled with messages from people you never talk to.
Youre older today than yesterday but younger than tomorrow happy birthday
Forget about the past you cant change it. Forget about the future you cant predict it. And forget about the present I didnt get you one. Happy birthday
Cheers on your birthday. One step closer to adult underpants.
Happy birthday to one of the few people whose birthday I can remember without a Facebook reminder.
Happy Birthday You know you dont look that old. But then you dont look that young either.
Happy birthday to someone who is smart gorgeous funny and reminds me a lot of myself from one fabulous chick to another
Dont get all weird about getting older Our age is merely the number of years the world has been enjoying us
As you get older three things happen. The first is your memory goes and I cant remember the other two. Happy birthday
You are only young once but you can be immature for a lifetime. Happy birthday
On your birthday I thought of giving you the cutest gift in the world. But then I realized that is not possible because you yourself are the cutest gift in the world.
Happy birthday to someone who is forever young
Its birthday time again and wow Youre a whole year older now So clown around and have some fun to make this birthday your best one. Happy birthday
Just wanted to be the first one to wish you happy birthday so I can feel superior to your other wellwishers. So happy birthday
Congratulations on being even more experienced. Im not sure what you learned this year but every experience transforms us into the people we are today. Happy birthday
When the little kids ask how old you are at your party you should go ahead and tell them. While theyre distracted trying to count that high you can steal a bite of their cake Happy birthday

Cute Happy Birthday Quotes For Her
No matter who your card recipient may be there is something sweet about adding cute happy birthday quotes to your birthday card. If youre writing a birthday card message for your mom or sister a great friend a beloved family member or your loved one make sure to use one of these birthday sentiments to wish her well. Weve got birthday wishes for every special girl in your lifefrom her first birthday to her 80th birthday. Here are some of the sweetest birthday wishes for her that you can send to any great woman in your life. Add these birthday wishes to a photo card a calendar of family photos or other personalized gift shell cherish.

happy birthday quotes for mom

Wishing you a day filled with happiness and a year filled with joy. Happy birthday
Sending you smiles for every moment of your special dayHave a wonderful time and a very happy birthday
Hope your special day brings you all that your heart desires Heres wishing you a day full of pleasant surprises Happy birthday
On your birthday we wish for you that whatever you want most in life it comes to you just the way you imagined it or better. Happy birthday
Sending your way a bouquet of happinessTo wish you a very happy birthday
Wishing you a beautiful day with good health and happiness forever. Happy birthday
Its a smile from me To wish you a day that brings the same kind of happiness and joy that you bring to me. Happy birthday
On this wonderful day I wish you the best that life has to offer Happy birthday
I may not be by your side celebrating your special day with you but I want you to know that Im thinking of you and wishing you a wonderful birthday.
I wish for all of your wishes to come true. Happy birthday
Many years ago on this day God decided to send an angel to earth. The angel was meant to touch lives and that happened Happy birthday my sweet angel
Sending you a birthday wish wrapped with all my love. Have a very happy birthday
 Happy birthday to you. From good friends and true from old friends and new may good luck go with you and happiness too
A simple celebration a gathering of friends here wishing you great happiness and a joy that never ends.
Its always a treat to wish happy birthday to someone so sweet.
Happy birthday to one of my best friends. Heres to another year of laughing at our own jokes and keeping each other sane Love you and happy birthday
On this special day I raise a toast to you and your life. Happy birthday.
You look younger than ever Happy birthday
Words alone are not enough to express how happy I am you are celebrating another year of your life My wish for you on your birthday is that you are and will always be happy and healthy. Dont ever change Happy birthday my dear.
I cant believe how lucky I am to have found a friend like you. You make every day of my life so special. Its my goal to make sure your birthday is one of the most special days ever. I cant wait to celebrate with you
A friend like you is more priceless than the most beautiful diamond. You are not only strong and wise but kind and thoughtful as well. Your birthday is the perfect opportunity to show you how much I care and how grateful I am to have you in my life. Happy birthday
I hope that today at your party you dance and others sing as you celebrate with joy your best birthday.
Happy Birthday Wishes For Him
Youve got a guy a dude a fella a man in your life. He whoever he is has a birthday. When you have a birthday message for him you want it to be special. Is it your buddys birthday Your brothers Maybe its your sons birthday. Make each of the men in your life know how special he is to you by including a personal birthday message for him. For more creative birthday gift ideas for him create a custom photo book of your favorite memories together or consider these unique gifts or these great gifts for kids.

Hope your birthday is just like youtotally freaking awesome.
Wishing you a birthday thats just as wonderful as you are
Everybody has birthdays. You just wear yours better than most
You were born and the world became a better place.
Youre not older  youre just more distinguished.
I am blessed to have a buddy like you. Happy birthday dear friend. May your special day be loaded with happiness and love.
Today is your day live it like you are the king of the world and dont mind what others say this day is just for you Happy birthday.
Best wishes on your birthday May you have maximum fun today and minimum hangover tomorrow
Just like a fine wine you seem to get better with age. Happy birthday handsome guy
Hey Birthday Boy Im sending you this ironic birthday wish because I know youre way too cool for ordinary human sentiments.
Sending some love to the most charming man in my life. You always bring the best out of me. I do not know how you do it but I love you for that. Happy Birthday.
Happy Birthday to a great guy You do so much for others. I hope you can take some time for yourself on your big day. You deserve it as much as anyone and more than most.
