so much depends upon a red wheel barrow glazed with rain water beside the white chickens
April is the cruellest month breeding lilacs out of the dead land mixing memory and desire stirring dull roots with spring rain.
Winter kept us warm covering earth in forgetful snow feeding a little life with dried tubers.
Summer surprised us coming over the Starnbergersee with a shower of rain we stopped in the colonnade and went on in sunlight into the Hofgarten and drank coffee and talked for an hour.
Bin gar keine Russin stamm aus Litauen echt deutsch.
And when we were children staying at the archdukes my cousins he took me out on a sled and I was frightened. He said Marie marie hold on tight. And down we went.
In the mountains there you feel free.
I read much of the night and go south in the winter.
What are the roots that clutch what branches grow out of this stony rubbish Son of man you cannot say or guess for you know only a heap of broken images where the sun beats and the dead tree gives no shelter the cricket no relief and the dry stone no sound of water. Only there is shadow under this red rock come in under the shadow of this red rock and I will show you something different from either your shadow at morning striding behind you or your shadow at evening rising to meet you I will show you fear in a handful of dust.
Frisch weht der Wind Der Heimat zu Mein Irisch Kind Wo weilest du you gave me hyacinths first a year ago they called me the hyacinth girl.
Yet when we came back late from the Hyacinth garden your arms full and your hair wet I could not speak and my eyes failed I was neither living nor dead and I knew nothing looking into the heart of light the silence.
Oed und leer das Meer.
Madame Sosostris famous clairvoyante had a bad cold nevertheless is known to be the wisest woman in Europe with a wicked pack of cards. Here said she is your card the drowned Phoenician Sailor those are pearls that were his eyes. Look here is Belladonna the Lady of the Rocks the lady of situations.
Here is the man with three staves and here the Wheel and here is the oneeyed merchant and this card which is blank is something he carries on his back which I am forbidden to see. I do not find the Hanged Man. Fear death by water.
I see crowds of people walking round in a ring.
Thank you. If you see dear Mrs. Equitone tell her I bring the horoscope myself one must be so careful these days.
Unreal City under the brown fog of a winter dawn a crowd flowed over London Bridge so many I had not thought death had undone so many.
Sighs short and infrequent were exhaled and each man fixed his eyes before his feet.
Flowed up the hill and down King William Street to where Saint Mary Woolnoth kept the hours with a dead sound on the final stroke of nine.
There I saw one I knew and stopped him crying Stetson you who were with me in the ships at Mylae that corpse you planted last year in your garden has it begun to sprout Will it bloom this year or has the sudden frost disturbed its bed oh keep the Dog far hence thats friend to men or with his nails hell dig it up again you hypocrite lecteurmon semblablemon frre II. A Game of Chess the Chair she sat in like a burnished throne glowed on the marble where the glass held up by standards wrought with fruited vines from which a golden Cupidon peeped out another hid his eyes behind his wing doubled the flames of sevenbranched candelabra reflecting light upon the table as the glitter of her jewels rose to meet it from satin cases poured in rich profusion in vials of ivory and coloured glass unstoppered lurked her strange synthetic perfumes unguent powdered or liquidtroubled confused and drowned the sense in odours stirred by the air that freshened from the window these ascended in fattening the prolonged candleflames flung their smoke into the laquearia stirring the pattern on the coffered ceiling.
Huge seawood fed with copper burned green and orange framed by the coloured stone in which sad light a carvd dolphin swam.
Above the antique mantel was displayed as though a window gave upon the sylvan scene the change of Philomel by the barbarous king so rudely forced yet there the nightingale filled all the desert with inviolable voice and still she cried and still the world pursues jug Jug to dirty ears.
And other withered stumps of time were told upon the walls staring forms leaned out leaning hushing the room enclosed.
Footsteps shuffled on the stair.
Under the firelight under the brush her hair spread out in fiery points glowed into words then would be savagely still.
My nerves are bad tonight. Yes bad. Stay with me.
Speak to me. Why do you never speak. Speak.
What are you thinking of What thinking What I never know what you are thinking. Think.
I think we are in rats alley where the dead men lost their bones.
What is that noise The wind under the door.
What is that noise now What is the wind doing Nothing again nothing.
Do you know nothing Do you see nothing Do you remember nothing I remember those are pearls that were his eyes.
Are you alive or not Is there nothing in your head But o O O O that Shakespeherian Rag its so elegant so intelligent what shall I do now What shall I do I shall rush out as I am and walk the street with my hair down so. What shall we do tomorrow what shall we ever do The hot water at ten.
And if it rains a closed car at four.
And we shall play a game of chess pressing lidless eyes and waiting for a knock upon the door.
When Lils husband got demobbed I said I didnt mince my words I said to her myself hURRY UP PLEASE ITS TIME now Alberts coming back make yourself a bit smart.
Hell want to know what you done with that money he gave you to get yourself some teeth. He did I was there.
You have them all out Lil and get a nice set he said I swear I cant bear to look at you.
And no more cant I I said and think of poor Albert hes been in the army four years he wants a good time and if you dont give it him theres others will I said.
Oh is there she said. Something o that I said.
Then Ill know who to thank she said and give me a straight look.
HURRY UP PLEASE ITS TIME if you dont like it you can get on with it I said.
Others can pick and choose if you cant.
But if Albert makes off it wont be for lack of telling.
You ought to be ashamed I said to look so antique.
And her only thirtyone.
I cant help it she said pulling a long face its them pills I took to bring it off she said.
Shes had five already and nearly died of young George.
The chemist said it would be all right but Ive never been the same.
You are a proper fool I said.
Well if Albert wont leave you alone there it is I said what you get married for if you dont want children hURRY UP PLEASE ITS TIME well that Sunday Albert was home they had a hot gammon and they asked me in to dinner to get the beauty of it hot hURRY UP PLEASE ITS TIME hURRY UP PLEASE ITS TIME goonight Bill. Goonight Lou. Goonight May. Goonight.
Ta ta. Goonight. Goonight.
Good night ladies good night sweet ladies good night good night.
III. The Fire Sermon The rivers tent is broken the last fingers of leaf clutch and sink into the wet bank. The wind crosses the brown land unheard. The nymphs are departed.
Sweet Thames run softly till I end my song.
The river bears no empty bottles sandwich papers silk handkerchiefs cardboard boxes cigarette ends or other testimony of summer nights. The nymphs are departed.
And their friends the loitering heirs of city directors departed have left no addresses.
By the waters of Leman I sat down and wept . . .
Sweet Thames run softly till I end my song sweet Thames run softly for I speak not loud or long.
But at my back in a cold blast I hear the rattle of the bones and chuckle spread from ear to ear.
A rat crept softly through the vegetation dragging its slimy belly on the bank while I was fishing in the dull canal on a winter evening round behind the gashouse musing upon the king my brothers wreck and on the king my fathers death before him.
White bodies naked on the low damp ground and bones cast in a little low dry garret rattled by the rats foot only year to year.
But at my back from time to time I hear the sound of horns and motors which shall bring sweeney to Mrs. Porter in the spring.
O the moon shone bright on Mrs. Porter and on her daughter they wash their feet in soda water et O ces voix denfants chantant dans la coupole twit twit twit jug jug jug jug jug jug so rudely forcd.
Tereu unreal City under the brown fog of a winter noon mr. Eugenides the Smyrna merchant unshaven with a pocket full of currants c.i.f. London documents at sight asked me in demotic French to luncheon at the Cannon Street Hotel followed by a weekend at the Metropole.
At the violet hour when the eyes and back turn upward from the desk when the human engine waits like a taxI throbbing waiting I Tiresias though blind throbbing between two lives old man with wrinkled female breasts can see at the violet hour the evening hour that strives homeward and brings the sailor home from sea the typist home at teatime clears her breakfast lights her stove and lays out food in tins.
Out of the window perilously spread her drying combinations touched by the suns last rays on the divan are piled at night her bed stockings slippers camisoles and stays.
I Tiresias old man with wrinkled dugs perceived the scene and foretold the rest I too awaited the expected guest.
He the young man carbuncular arrives a small house agents clerk with one bold stare one of the low on whom assurance sits as a silk hat on a Bradford millionaire.
The time is now propitious as he guesses the meal is ended she is bored and tired endeavours to engage her in caresses which still are unreproved if undesired.
Flushed and decided he assaults at once exploring hands encounter no defence his vanity requires no response and makes a welcome of indifference.
And I Tiresias have foresuffered all enacted on this same divan or bed I who have sat by Thebes below the wall and walked among the lowest of the dead.
Bestows one final patronising kiss and gropes his way finding the stairs unlit . . .
She turns and looks a moment in the glass hardly aware of her departed lover her brain allows one halfformed thought to pass well now thats done and Im glad its over.
When lovely woman stoops to folly and paces about her room again alone she smoothes her hair with automatic hand and puts a record on the gramophone.
This music crept by me upon the waters and along the Strand up Queen Victoria Street.
O City city I can sometimes hear beside a public bar in Lower Thames Street the pleasant whining of a mandoline and a clatter and a chatter from within where fishmen lounge at noon where the walls of Magnus Martyr hold inexplicable splendour of Ionian white and gold.
The river sweats Oil and tar The barges drift With the turning tide Red sails Wide To leeward swing on the heavy spar.
The barges wash Drifting logs Down Greenwich reach Past the Isle of Dogs.
Weialala leia Wallala leialala Elizabeth and Leicester Beating oars The stern was formed A gilded shell Red and gold The brisk swell Rippled both shores Southwest wind Carried down stream The peal of bells White towers Weialala leia Wallala leialala trams and dusty trees.
Highbury bore me. Richmond and Kew undid me. By Richmond I raised my knees supine on the floor of a narrow canoe.
My feet are at Moorgate and my heart under my feet. After the event he wept. He promised a new start.
I made no comment. What should I resent on Margate Sands.
I can connect nothing with nothing.
The broken fingernails of dirty hands.
My people humble people who expect nothing.
Two roads diverged in a yellow wood and sorry I could not travel both.
And be one traveler long I stood and looked down one as far as I could to where it bent in the undergrowth.
Then took the other as just as fair and having perhaps the better claim because it was grassy and wanted wear.
Though as for that the passing there had worn them really about the same.
And both that morning equally lay in leaves no step had trodden black.
Oh I kept the first for another day
Yet knowing how way leads on to way I doubted if I should ever come back.
I shall be telling this with a sigh somewhere ages and ages hence.
Two roads diverged in a wood and I I took the one less traveled by and that has made all the difference.
We real cool We Left school We Lurk late We Strike straight.
We Sing sin We Thin gin We Jazz June We Die soon.
The art of losing isnt hard to master so many things seem filled with the intent to be lost that their loss is no disaster.
Lose something every day Accept the fluster of lost door keys the hour badly spent.
The art of losing isnt hard to master.
Then practice losing farther losing faster places and names and where it was you meant to travel.
None of these will bring disaster.
I lost my mothers watch. And look my last or nexttolast of three loved houses went.
The art of losing isnt hard to master.
I lost two cities lovely ones.
And vaster some realms I owned two rivers a continent.
I miss them but it wasnt a disaster.
Even losing you the joking voice a gesture I love I shant have lied.
Its evident the art of losings not too hard to master though it may look like Write it like disaster.
Because I could not stop for Death he kindly stopped for me.
The Carriage held but just Ourselves And Immortality.
We slowly drove He knew no haste and I had put away my labor and my leisure too for His Civility.
We passed the School where Children strove.
At Recess in the Ring we passed the Fields of Gazing Grain.
We passed the Setting Sun.
Or rather He passed Us the Dews drew quivering and Chill.
For only Gossamer my Gown my Tippet only Tulle.
We paused before a House that seemed w Swelling of the Ground.
The Roof was scarcely visible the Cornice in the Ground.
Since then tis Centuries and yet feels shorter than the Day I first surmised the Horses Heads were toward Eternity.
What happens to a dream deferred
Does it dry up like a raisin in the sun
Or fester like a sore and then run
Does it stink like rotten meat
Or crust and sugar over like a syrupy sweet
Maybe it just sags like a heavy load.
Or does it explode
Among twenty snowy mountains The only moving thing Was the eye of the blackbird.
I was of three minds Like a tree In which there are three blackbirds.
The blackbird whirled in the autumn winds. It was a small part of the pantomime.
A man and a woman Are one. A man and a woman and a blackbird Are one.
I do not know which to prefer The beauty of inflections Or the beauty of innuendoes The blackbird whistling Or just after.
Icicles filled the long window With barbaric glass. The shadow of the blackbird Crossed it to and fro. The mood Traced in the shadow An indecipherable cause.
O thin men of Haddam Why do you imagine golden birds Do you not see how the blackbird Walks around the feet Of the women about you
I know noble accents And lucid inescapable rhythms But I know too That the blackbird is involved In what I know.
When the blackbird flew out of sight It marked the edge Of one of many circles.
At the sight of blackbirds Flying in a green light Even the bawds of euphony Would cry out sharply.
He rode over Connecticut In a glass coach. Once a fear pierced him In that he mistook The shadow of his equipage For blackbirds.
The river is moving. The blackbird must be flying.
You may write me down in history with your bitter twisted lies you may trod me in the very dirt but still like dust Ill rise.
Does my sassiness upset you
Why are you beset with gloom
Cause I walk like Ive got oil wells pumping in my living room.
Just like moons and like suns with the certainty of tides just like hopes springing high still Ill rise.
Did you want to see me broken
Bowed head and lowered eyes
Shoulders falling down like teardrops weakened by my soulful cries
Does my haughtiness offend you
Dont you take it awful hard Cause I laugh like Ive got gold mines diggin in my own backyard.
You may shoot me with your words you may cut me with your eyes you may kill me with your hatefulness but still like air Ill rise.
Does my sexiness upset you
Does it come as a surprise that I dance like Ive got diamonds at the meeting of my thighs
Out of the huts of historys shame I rise up from a past thats rooted in pain I rise im a black ocean leaping and wide welling and swelling I bear in the tide.
Leaving behind nights of terror and fear I rise into a daybreak thats wondrously clear I rise bringing the gifts that my ancestors gave I am the dream and the hope of the slave.
I rise I rise I rise.
Do not go gentle into that good night
Old age should burn and rave at close of day
Rage rage against the dying of the light.
Though wise men at their end know dark is right
Because their words had forked no lightning they
Do not go gentle into that good night.
Good men the last wave by crying how bright
Their frail deeds might have danced in a green bay
Rage rage against the dying of the light.
Wild men who caught and sang the sun in flight
And learn too late they grieved it on its way
Do not go gentle into that good night.
Grave men near death who see with blinding sight
Blind eyes could blaze like meteors and be gay
Rage rage against the dying of the light.
And you my father there on the sad height
Curse bless me now with your fierce tears I pray.
Do not go gentle into that good night.
Rage rage against the dying of the light.
In Xanadu did Kubla Khan a stately pleasuredome decree where Alph the sacred river ran through caverns measureless to man down to a sunless sea.
So twice five miles of fertile ground with walls and towers were girdled round and there were gardens bright with sinuous rills where blossomed many an incensebearing tree and here were forests ancient as the hills enfolding sunny spots of greenery.
But oh that deep romantic chasm which slanted down the green hill athwart a cedarn cover
A savage place as holy and enchanted as eer beneath a waning moon was haunted by woman wailing for her demonlover
And from this chasm with ceaseless turmoil seething as if this earth in fast thick pants were breathing a mighty fountain momently was forced amid whose swift halfintermitted burst huge fragments vaulted like rebounding hail or chaffy grain beneath the threshers flail and mid these dancing rocks at once and ever it flung up momently the sacred river.
Five miles meandering with a mazy motion through wood and dale the sacred river ran then reached the caverns measureless to man and sank in tumult to a lifeless ocean and mid this tumult Kubla heard from far ancestral voices prophesying war
The shadow of the dome of pleasure floated midway on the waves where was heard the mingled measure from the fountain and the caves.
It was a miracle of rare device a sunny pleasuredome with caves of ice
A damsel with a dulcimer in a vision once I saw it was an Abyssinian maid and on her dulcimer she played singing of Mount Abora.
Could I revive within me her symphony and song to such a deep delight twould win me that with music loud and long i would build that dome in air that sunny dome those caves of ice
And all who heard should see them there and all should cry Beware Beware
His flashing eyes his floating hair
Weave a circle round him thrice and close your eyes with holy dread for he on honeydew hath fed and drunk the milk of Paradise.
I met a traveller from an antique land
Who said Two vast and trunkless legs of stone stand in the desert.
Near them on the sand half sunk a shattered visage lies whose frown and wrinkled lip and sneer of cold command tell that its sculptor well those passions read which yet survive stamped on these lifeless things the hand that mocked them and the heart that fed.
And on the pedestal these words appear.
My name is Ozymandias King of Kings look on my Works ye Mighty and despair
Nothing beside remains.
Round the decay of that colossal Wreck boundless and bare the lone and level sands stretch far away.
It is not the moon I tell you.
It is these flowers lighting the yard.
I hate them.
I hate them as I hate sex the mans mouth sealing my mouth the mans paralyzing body.
And the cry that always escapes the low humiliating premise of union.
In my mind tonight I hear the question and pursuing answer fused in one sound that mounts and mounts and then is split into the old selves the tired antagonisms.
Do you see
We were made fools of.
And the scent of mock orange drifts through the window.
How can I rest
How can I be content when there is still that odor in the world
We wear the mask that grins and lies
It hides our cheeks and shades our eyes
This debt we pay to human guile
With torn and bleeding hearts we smile
And mouth with myriad subtleties.
Why should the world be overwise
In counting all our tears and sighs
Nay let them only see us while
We wear the mask.
We smile but O great Christ our cries
To thee from tortured souls arise.
We sing but oh the clay is vile
Beneath our feet and long the mile
But let the world dream otherwise
We wear the mask
You do not do you do not do any more black shoe in which I have lived like a foot for thirty years poor and white barely daring to breathe or Achoo.
Daddy I have had to kill you.
You died before I had time marbleheavy a bag full of God ghastly statue with one gray toe big as a Frisco seal and a head in the freakish Atlantic where it pours bean green over blue in the waters off beautiful Nauset.
I used to pray to recover you.
Ach du. In the German tongue in the Polish town scraped flat by the roller of wars wars wars.
But the name of the town is common.
My Polack friend says there are a dozen or two.
So I never could tell where you put your foot your root i never could talk to you.
The tongue stuck in my jaw.
It stuck in a barb wire snare.
Ich ich ich ich i could hardly speak.
I thought every German was you.
And the language obscene an engine an engine chuffing me off like a Jew.
A Jew to Dachau Auschwitz Belsen.
I began to talk like a Jew.
I think I may well be a Jew.
The snows of the Tyrol the clear beer of Vienna are not very pure or true.
With my gipsy ancestress and my weird luck and my Taroc pack and my Taroc pack i may be a bit of a Jew.
I have always been scared of you with your Luftwaffe your gobbledygoo.
And your neat mustache and your Aryan eye bright blue.
Panzerman panzerman O You not God but a swastika so black no sky could squeak through.
Every woman adores a Fascist the boot in the face the brute brute heart of a brute like you.
You stand at the blackboard daddy in the picture I have of you a cleft in your chin instead of your foot but no less a devil for that no not any less the black man who bit my pretty red heart in two.
I was ten when they buried you.
At twenty I tried to die and get back back back to you.
I thought even the bones would do.
But they pulled me out of the sack and they stuck me together with glue.
And then I knew what to do.
I made a model of you a man in black with a Meinkampf look and a love of the rack and the screw.
And I said I do I do.
So daddy Im finally through.
The black telephones off at the root the voices just cant worm through.
If Ive killed one man Ive killed two the vampire who said he was you and drank my blood for a year seven years if you want to know.
Daddy you can lie back now.
Theres a stake in your fat black heart and the villagers never liked you.
They are dancing and stamping on you.
They always knew it was you.
Daddy daddy you bastard Im through.
I too dislike it there are things that are important beyond all this fiddle.
Reading it however with a perfect contempt for it one discovers that there is in it after all a place for the genuine.
Hands that can grasp eyes that can dilate hair that can rise if it must these things are important not because a highsounding interpretation can be put upon them but because they are useful
when they become so derivative as to become unintelligible the same thing may be said for all of usthat we do not admire what we cannot understand. The bat holding on upside down or in quest of something to eat elephants pushing a wild horse taking a roll a tireless wolf under a tree the immovable critic twinkling his skin like a horse that feels a flea the base ball fan the statisticiancase after case could be cited did one wish it
nor is it valid to discriminate against business documents and schoolbooks
all these phenomena are important. One must make a distinction however when dragged into prominence by half poets the result is not poetry nor till the autocrats among us can be literalists of the imaginationabove insolence and triviality and can present for inspection imaginary gardens with real toads in them shall we have it. In the meantime if you demand on the one hand in defiance of their opinion the raw material of poetry in all its rawness and that which is on the other hand genuine then you are interested in poetry.
If you can keep your head when all about you are losing theirs and blaming it on you
If you can trust yourself when all men doubt you but make allowance for their doubting too
If you can wait and not be tired by waiting or being lied about dont deal in lies or being hated dont give way to hating and yet dont look too good nor talk too wise
If you can dreamand not make dreams your master
If you can thinkand not make thoughts your aim
If you can meet with triumph and disaster and treat those two impostors just the same
If you can bear to hear the truth youve spoken twisted by knaves to make a trap for fools or watch the things you gave your life to broken and stoop and build em up with wornout tools
If you can make one heap of all your winnings and risk it on one turn of pitchandtoss and lose and start again at your beginnings and never breathe a word about your loss
If you can force your heart and nerve and sinew to serve your turn long after they are gone and so hold on when there is nothing in you except the Will which says to them Hold on
If you can talk with crowds and keep your virtue or walk with kingsnor lose the common touch
If neither foes nor loving friends can hurt you
If all men count with you but none too much
If you can fill the unforgiving minute with sixty seconds worth of distance run yours is the Earth and everything thats in it andwhich is moreyoull be a Man my son
Turning and turning in the widening gyre the falcon cannot hear the falconer
Things fall apart the centre cannot hold
Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world the blooddimmed tide is loosed and everywhere the ceremony of innocence is drowned
The best lack all conviction while the worst are full of passionate intensity.
Surely some revelation is at hand
Surely the Second Coming is at hand.
The Second Coming Hardly are those words out when a vast image out of Spiritus Mundi troubles my sight somewhere in sands of the desert a shape with lion body and the head of a man a gaze blank and pitiless as the sun is moving its slow thighs while all about it reel shadows of the indignant desert birds.
The darkness drops again but now I know that twenty centuries of stony sleep were vexed to nightmare by a rocking cradle and what rough beast its hour come round at last slouches towards Bethlehem to be born
Wee sleeket cowran timrous beastie o what a panics in thy breastie
Thou need na start awa sae hasty wi bickerin brattle
I wad be laith to rin an chase thee wi murdring pattle
Im truly sorry Mans dominion has broken Natures social union an justifies that ill opinion which makes thee startle at me thy poor earthborn companion an fellowmortal
I doubt na whyles but thou may thieve what then poor beastie thou maun live
A daimenicker in a thrave S a sma request ill get a blessin wi the lave an never miss t
Thy weebit housie too in ruin
Its silly was the wins are strewin
An naething now to big a new ane o foggage green
An bleak Decembers winds ensuin baith snell an keen
Thou saw the fields laid bare an waste an weary Winter comin fast an cozie here beneath the blast thou thought to dwell till crash the cruel coulter past out thro thy cell.
That weebit heap o leaves an stibble has cost thee monie a weary nibble
Now thous turnd out for a thy trouble but house or hald to thole the Winters sleety dribble an cranreuch cauld
But Mousie thou art no thylane in proving foresight may be vain the best laid schemes o Mice an Men gang aft agley an leae us nought but grief an pain for promisd joy
Still thou art blest compard wi me
The present only toucheth thee but Och I backward cast my ee on prospects drear
An forward tho I canna see i guess an fear
I celebrate myself and sing myself and what I assume you shall assume for every atom belonging to me as good belongs to you.
I loafe and invite my soul i lean and loafe at my ease observing a spear of summer grass.
My tongue every atom of my blood formd from this soil this air born here of parents born here from parents the same and their parents the same i now thirtyseven years old in perfect health begin hoping to cease not till death.
Creeds and schools in abeyance retiring back a while sufficed at what they are but never forgotten i harbor for good or bad I permit to speak at every hazard nature without check with original energy.
Houses and rooms are full of perfumes the shelves are crowded with perfumes i breathe the fragrance myself and know it and like it the distillation would intoxicate me also but I shall not let it.
The atmosphere is not a perfume it has no taste of the distillation it is odorless it is for my mouth forever I am in love with it i will go to the bank by the wood and become undisguised and naked i am mad for it to be in contact with me.
The smoke of my own breath echoes ripples buzzd whispers loveroot silkthread crotch and vine my respiration and inspiration the beating of my heart the passing of blood and air through my lungs the sniff of green leaves and dry leaves and of the shore and darkcolord searocks and of hay in the barn the sound of the belchd words of my voice loosd to the eddies of the wind a few light kisses a few embraces a reaching around of arms the play of shine and shade on the trees as the supple boughs wag the delight alone or in the rush of the streets or along the fields and hillsides the feeling of health the fullnoon trill the song of me rising from bed and meeting the sun.
Have you reckond a thousand acres much have you reckond the earth much
Have you practisd so long to learn to read
Have you felt so proud to get at the meaning of poems
Stop this day and night with me and you shall possess the origin of all poems you shall possess the good of the earth and sun there are millions of suns left you shall no longer take things at second or third hand nor look through the eyes of the dead nor feed on the spectres in books you shall not look through my eyes either nor take things from me you shall listen to all sides and filter them from your self.
Shall I compare thee to a summers day
Thou art more lovely and more temperate
Rough winds do shake the darling buds of May
And summers lease hath all too short a date
Sometime too hot the eye of heaven shines
And often is his gold complexion dimmd
And every fair from fair sometime declines
By chance or natures changing course untrimmd
But thy eternal summer shall not fade
Nor lose possession of that fair thou owst
Nor shall death brag thou wanderst in his shade
When in eternal lines to time thou growst
So long as men can breathe or eyes can see
So long lives this and this gives life to thee.
The difference between poetry and rhetoric is being ready to kill yourself instead of your children.
I am trapped on a desert of raw gunshot wounds and a dead child dragging his shattered black face off the edge of my sleep blood from his punctured cheeks and shoulders is the only liquid for miles and my stomach churns at the imagined taste while my mouth splits into dry lips without loyalty or reason thirsting for the wetness of his blood as it sinks into the whiteness of the desert where I am lost without imagery or magic trying to make power out of hatred and destruction trying to heal my dying son with kisses only the sun will bleach his bones quicker.
A policeman who shot down a ten year old in Queens stood over the boy with his cop shoes in childish blood and a voice said Die you little motherfucker and there are tapes to prove it. At his trial this policeman said in his own defense I didnt notice the size nor nothing else only the color. And there are tapes to prove that too.
Today that 37 year old white man with 13 years of police forcing was set free by eleven white men who said they were satisfied justice had been done and one Black Woman who said They convinced me meaning they had dragged her 410 black Womans frame over the hot coals of four centuries of white male approval until she let go the first real power she ever had and lined her own womb with cement to make a graveyard for our children.
I have not been able to touch the destruction within me.
Am I to become profligate as if I were a blonde Or religious as if I were French
Each time my heart is broken it makes me feel more adventurous and how the same names keep recurring on that interminable list but one of these days therell be nothing left with which to venture forth.
Why should I share you Why dont you get rid of someone else for a change
I am the least difficult of men. All I want is boundless love.
Even trees understand me Good heavens I lie under them too dont I Im just like a pile of leaves.
However I have never clogged myself with the praises of pastoral life nor with nostalgia for an innocent past of perverted acts in pastures. No. One need never leave the confines of New York to get all the greenery one wishesI cant even enjoy a blade of grass unless I know theres a subway handy or a record store or some other sign that people do not totally regret life. It is more important to affirm the least sincere the clouds get enough attention as it is and even they continue to pass. Do they know what theyre missing Uh huh.
My eyes are vague blue like the sky and change all the time they are indiscriminate but fleeting entirely specific and disloyal so that no one trusts me. I am always looking away. Or again at something after it has given me up. It makes me restless and that makes me unhappy but I cannot keep them still. If only I had grey green black brown yellow eyes I would stay at home and do something. Its not that I am curious. On the contrary I am bored but its my duty to be attentive I am needed by things as the sky must be above the earth. And lately so great has their anxiety become I can spare myself little sleep.
Now there is only one man I love to kiss when he is unshaven. Heterosexuality you are inexorably approaching. How discourage her st. Serapion I wrap myself in the robes of your whiteness which is like midnight in Dostoevsky. How am I to become a legend my dear Ive tried love but that hides you in the bosom of another and I am always springing forth from it like the lotusthe ecstasy of always bursting forth but one must not be distracted by it or like a hyacinth to keep the filth of life away yes there even in the heart where the filth is pumped in and courses and slanders and pollutes and determines. I will my will though I may become famous for a mysterious vacancy in that department that greenhouse.
Destroy yourself if you dont know
It is easy to be beautiful it is difficult to appear so. I admire you beloved for the trap youve set. Its like a final chapter no one reads because the plot is over.
Fanny Brown is run awayscampered off with a Cornet of Horse I do love that little Minx  hope She may be happy tho She has vexed me by this Exploit a little too. Poor silly Cecchina or FB as we used to call her. I wish She had a good Whipping and 10000 pounds. Mrs. Thrale.
Ive got to get out of here. I choose a piece of shawl and my dirtiest suntans. Ill be back Ill reemerge defeated from the valley you dont want me to go where you go so I go where you dont want me to. Its only afternoon theres a lot ahead. There wont be any mail downstairs. Turning I spit in the lock and the knob turns.
In Flanders fields the poppies blow between the crosses row on row that mark our place and in the sky the larks still bravely singing fly scarce heard amid the guns below.
We are the Dead. Short days ago we lived felt dawn saw sunset glow loved and were loved and now we lie in Flanders fields.
Take up our quarrel with the foe to you from failing hands we throw the torch be yours to hold it high.
If ye break faith with us who die we shall not sleep though poppies grow in Flanders fields.
Twas brillig and the slithy toves did gyre and gimble in the wabe all mimsy were the borogoves and the mome raths outgrabe.
Beware the Jabberwock my son
The jaws that bite the claws that catch
Beware the Jubjub bird and shun the frumious Bandersnatch he took his vorpal sword in hand long time the manxome foe he sought so rested he by the Tumtum tree and stood awhile in thought.
And as in uffish thought he stood the Jabberwock with eyes of flame came whiffling through the tulgey wood and burbled as it came
One two One two And through and through the vorpal blade went snickersnack
He left it dead and with its head he went galumphing back.
And hast thou slain the Jabberwock
Come to my arms my beamish boy
O frabjous day Callooh Callay he chortled in his joy.
Twas brillig and the slithy toves did gyre and gimble in the wabe all mimsy were the borogoves and the mome raths outgrabe.
Once upon a midnight dreary while I pondered weak and weary over many a quaint and curious volume of forgotten lore while I nodded nearly napping suddenly there came a tapping as of some one gently rapping rapping at my chamber door.
Tis some visitor I muttered tapping at my chamber door only this and nothing more. ah distinctly I remember it was in the bleak December and each separate dying ember wrought its ghost upon the floor.
Eagerly I wished the morrow vainly I had sought to borrow from my books surcease of sorrow sorrow for the lost Lenore for the rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore nameless here for evermore.
And the silken sad uncertain rustling of each purple curtain thrilled me filled me with fantastic terrors never felt before so that now to still the beating of my heart I stood repeating Tis some visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door some late visitor entreating entrance at my chamber door this it is and nothing more. presently my soul grew stronger hesitating then no longer Sir said I or Madam truly your forgiveness I implore but the fact is I was napping and so gently you came rapping and so faintly you came tapping tapping at my chamber door that I scarce was sure I heard you here I opened wide the door darkness there and nothing more.
Deep into that darkness peering long I stood there wondering fearing doubting dreaming dreams no mortal ever dared to dream before but the silence was unbroken and the stillness gave no token and the only word there spoken was the whispered word Lenore this I whispered and an echo murmured back the word Lenore merely this and nothing more.
Back into the chamber turning all my soul within me burning soon again I heard a tapping somewhat louder than before.
Surely said I surely that is something at my window lattice let me see then what thereat is and this mystery explore let my heart be still a moment and this mystery explore Tis the wind and nothing more open here I flung the shutter when with many a flirt and flutter in there stepped a stately Raven of the saintly days of yore not the least obeisance made he not a minute stopped or stayed he but with mien of lord or lady perched above my chamber door perched upon a bust of Pallas just above my chamber door perched and sat and nothing more.
Then this ebony bird beguiling my sad fancy into smiling by the grave and stern decorum of the countenance it wore Though thy crest be shorn and shaven thou I said art sure no craven ghastly grim and ancient Raven wandering from the Nightly shore tell me what thy lordly name is on the Nights Plutonian shore quoth the Raven Nevermore. much I marvelled this ungainly fowl to hear discourse so plainly though its answer little meaning little relevancy bore for we cannot help agreeing that no living human being ever yet was blessed with seeing bird above his chamber door bird or beast upon the sculptured bust above his chamber door with such name as Nevermore. but the Raven sitting lonely on the placid bust spoke only that one word as if his soul in that one word he did outpour.
Nothing farther then he uttered not a feather then he fluttered till I scarcely more than muttered Other friends have flown before on the morrow he will leave me as my Hopes have flown before. then the bird said Nevermore. startled at the stillness broken by reply so aptly spoken Doubtless said I what it utters is its only stock and store caught from some unhappy master whom unmerciful Disaster followed fast and followed faster till his songs one burden bore till the dirges of his Hope that melancholy burden bore of Never nevermore. but the Raven still beguiling all my fancy into smiling straight I wheeled a cushioned seat in front of bird and bust and door then upon the velvet sinking I betook myself to linking fancy unto fancy thinking what this ominous bird of yore what this grim ungainly ghastly gaunt and ominous bird of yore meant in croaking Nevermore. this I sat engaged in guessing but no syllable expressing to the fowl whose fiery eyes now burned into my bosoms core this and more I sat divining with my head at ease reclining on the cushions velvet lining that the lamplight gloated oer but whose velvetviolet lining with the lamplight gloating oer she shall press ah nevermore
Then methought the air grew denser perfumed from an unseen censer swung by Seraphim whose footfalls tinkled on the tufted floor.
Wretch I cried thy God hath lent thee by these angels he hath sent thee respite respite and nepenthe from thy memories of Lenore quaff oh quaff this kind nepenthe and forget this lost Lenore quoth the Raven Nevermore. Prophet said I thing of evil prophet still if bird or devil
Whether Tempter sent or whether tempest tossed thee here ashore desolate yet all undaunted on this desert land enchanted on this home by Horror haunted tell me truly I implore is there is there balm in Gilead tell me tell me I implore quoth the Raven Nevermore. Prophet said I thing of evil prophet still if bird or devil
By that Heaven that bends above us by that God we both adore tell this soul with sorrow laden if within the distant Aidenn it shall clasp a sainted maiden whom the angels name Lenore clasp a rare and radiant maiden whom the angels name Lenore. quoth the Raven Nevermore. Be that word our sign of parting bird or fiend I shrieked upstarting Get thee back into the tempest and the Nights Plutonian shore
Leave no black plume as a token of that lie thy soul hath spoken
Leave my loneliness unbroken quit the bust above my door
Take thy beak from out my heart and take thy form from off my door quoth the Raven Nevermore. and the Raven never flitting still is sitting still is sitting on the pallid bust of Pallas just above my chamber door and his eyes have all the seeming of a demons that is dreaming and the lamplight oer him streaming throws his shadow on the floor and my soul from out that shadow that lies floating on the floor shall be lifted nevermore
